# Kickstarting With Excel
### The original goal of this module was to familiarize With excel using Pivot tables, descriptive statistics, and Charts. Note: that this document contains both the weekly challenge and teh Module work. The following is an overview and analysis of the challen
## Overview of Project
### The goal of this project was to help out out friend Louise using a Kickstarter fundraising dataset. Louise was interested in starting a kickstarter campaign to fund her play. We completed an initial analysis and Louise used it fund her play Fever, which did not meet its fundraising goal(although it came close). After that she was interested dee how other kickstarter campaigns did based on launch dates and fundraising goals. We completed a pivot table based analysis and provided visualization of the results.

## Analysis and Challenges
### In deliverabele 1, we used the sample kickstrater data to provide the outcomes of the crowdfunding campaigns ("succesful", "failed", and "canceled") based on the launch date of the campaign. We created a Pivot table to summarize the data by months in a calendar year (Rows) by the three aforementioned outcomes. Once the correct columsn, rows, and values were input, a filter was included on the pivot table to include only outcomes from theater campaigns (a parent category filter). This gives us a sample specific to Louise's interests (theatre campaigns). To visualize the data, we created a line plot with markers [see graph in resource folder] (Resources/Outcomes_Based_On_Launch_Date.png). The line chart summarize the total number of successes, failures, and cancels(y-axis) by month (x-axis) in a linear fashion.

### In delivarable 2, We used the same source data provide the outcome of play (subcatergory for theatre) campaigns based on the campaign funding goal. To analyze the information, we grouped the data into 12 different number ranges based on their monitary goal for the campaign funding. Please see Resources/Goal_Groups.png for exact groupings. For each group we calculated the number of "successful", "failed" and "canceled" play campaigns using an excel conditional counting formula (COUNTIF()), which was formatted to exclude anything that didnt wasn't a play and didn't fall in a specific group and outcome. The counted group by outcome results were divided by the total outcomes for that group to calculate the outcome percentages. To visualize this information, a line graph with markers was created to show the percentage per outcome (y-axis) at each grouping (x-axis) (see Resources/Outcomes_By_Category).

### No challenges were faced in the analysis due to prior excel experience use formulas, pivot tables, and charting. On the computation side, challenges could be encountered entering the correct information in the pivot tables and using the the COUNTIFS() formula to filter out the proper data. For visualization, understand which information to display in the x-axis and y-axis could pose some problems if teh analyst was not use ot using graphs.

## Results
- Conclusions about the theater outcomes by launch date can be made regarding the two different outcomes. The total number of failures remain fairly stable from month to month. However, the number of successes varies pretty largely. The late spring and summer months are the most successful months to launch a campaign with May seeing the most success. This might be partly due to the fact that a higher number of campaigns started in May when compared with any other month. From visual analysis, it is clear that the more campaigns started a month, the higher success perecentage.

- Upon analysis of Deliverable 2, we can see that the higher the campaign goal, the lower the percentage successful. There is a steady decline in success rate from The first group (<$1,000) as the campaign goal increases. Success and Failure rates hit a 1:1 ratio at the 5th group (15000 to 19999) and teh success rate continues to drop from there, with exception to two data points, "$35,000 to $39,999" and "$40,000 to $44,999", however, their is not a large enough sample size to support that this data is representative of a population.

- One limitation fo the dataset for our analysis is play subject. It is highly possible hat some genre or style of plays receieve more funding than others, but the dataset does not provide such detail. Another concern is the recency of the data. The most recent entry is from 3/15/17 which is more than 3 years ago. Within the data, there is an average of 120 theater campaigns a year (rounded), if there was data up until 2020 based on teh average, could increase the number of campagns by 360 for theatre alone. This would be a significant increase. Inflationa one could account for a change of campaign succesfulness based on goal. Finally, we do not know how exactly the money was campaigned for. If there was volunteer outreach, or if the funding site was spread through social media groups. How the campaign was spread could play a significant impact on funding.

- A linear regression graph could be created to explore more detail in the number of campaigns and its relationship to perecentage successful (as mentioned in deliverable 1.  More atbles could be created to analyze the outcome of spotlight and staff pick campaigns. Finally the relationship between  outcome and campaign length can be explored to see how long succesful campaigns took to complete
